Marshmallows
============

-   Â¾ oz (3 packets) unflavored gelatin

-   1 cup ice cold water, divided

-   12 ounces granulated sugar

-   1 cup light corn syrup

-   1/4 teaspoon kosher salt

-   1 teaspoon vanilla extract

-   1/4 cup confectioners' sugar

-   1/4 cup cornstarch

-   Nonstick spray

**PROCEDURE**

Combine the gelatin with 1/2 cup of the cold water in the bowl of a
stand mixer. Have the whisk attachment standing by.

Combine the remaining 1/2 cup water, the granulated sugar, corn syrup
and salt in a 2-quart saucepan. Place over medium high heat, cover and
allow to cook for 3 to 4 minutes. Uncover, clip a candy thermometer onto
the side of the pan and continue to cook until the mixture reaches 240
degrees F, approximately 7 to 8 minutes. When the mixture reaches this
temperature, immediately remove from the heat.

Turn the mixer fitted with the whisk attachment to low speed and, while
running, slowly pour the sugar syrup down the side of the bowl into the
gelatin mixture. Once you have added all of the syrup, increase the
speed to high. Continue to whip until the mixture becomes very thick and
is lukewarm, approximately 12 to 15 minutes. Add the vanilla during the
last minute of whipping. While the mixture is whipping prepare the pans
as follows.

**REGULAR MARSHMALLOWS**

Combine the confectioners' sugar and cornstarch in a small bowl. Lightly
spray a 13 by 9-inch metal baking pan with nonstick cooking spray. Add
the sugar and cornstarch mixture and move around to completely coat the
bottom and sides of the pan. Return the remaining mixture to the bowl
for later use.

When ready, pour the mixture into the prepared pan, using a lightly
oiled spatula for spreading evenly into the pan. Dust the top with
enough of the remaining sugar and cornstarch mixture to lightly cover.
Reserve the rest for later. Allow the marshmallows to sit uncovered for
at least 4 hours and up to overnight.

Turn the marshmallows out onto a cutting board and cut into 1-inch
squares using a pizza wheel or knife dusted with the confectioners'
sugar mixture. Once cut, lightly dust all sides of each marshmallow with
the remaining mixture, using additional if necessary. Store in an
airtight container for up to 3 weeks.
