Ingredients

-   3 pounds pickling cucumbers, sliced into 1/4-inch thick slices

-   2 cups sliced onions

-   1/2 cup pickling salt

-   6 cups water

-   3 cups white vinegar

-   1 1/2 cups apple cider vinegar

-   3 1/2 cups sugar

-   2 tablespoons yellow mustard seeds

-   1/2 teaspoon turmeric

-   4 whole cloves

-   10 tablespoons roughly chopped garlic

-   24 dried cayenne peppers

-   2 teaspoons 100 percent Natural Pickle Crisp, optional

Directions

Place cucumbers, onions, pickling salt, and water in a large,
non-reactive bowl. Cover and allow cucumbers to soak for 2 hours. Drain
the water from the onions and cucumbers through a colander and rinse
well for 5 minutes. Drain well and set aside.

Combine the vinegars, sugar, mustard seeds, turmeric, cloves, garlic,
and peppers in a medium saucepan over high heat. Bring to a boil, reduce
heat to medium and add the cucumbers and onions. Bring to a simmer and
remove the saucepan from the heat.

Fill each of the hot sterilized pint-size preserving jars with the
pickle mixture, dividing them evenly, and enough of the liquid to come
within 1/2-inch of the top. Add 1/2 teaspoon of Natural Pickle Crisp to
each jar, if desired. With a clean damp towel, wipe the rim and fit with
a hot lid. Screw on the metal ring just until the point of resistance is
met. Process the jars in a hot-water bath for 15 minutes.

Using tongs, remove the jars, place on a towel, and let cool. Test the
seals by allowing the jars to stand at room temperature overnight or
until the lids pop. Tighten the rings and store in a cool dry place. Let
the pickles age for at least 2 weeks before using.

Properly handled sterilized equipment will keep canned foods in good
condition for one year. Making sure hands, equipment and surfaces in
your canning area are clean is the first step in canning. Tips: Jars
should be made from glass and free of any chips or cracks. Preserving or
canning jars are topped with glass, plastic or metal lids that have a
rubberlike seal. Two-piece metal lids are most common. To prepare jars
before filling: Wash jars with hot, soapy water, rinse them well and
arrange them open-side up, without touching, on a tray. To sterilize
jars, boil them in a large saucepan, covered with water, for 10 minutes.
Jars have to be sterilized only if the food to be preserved will be
processed for less than 10 minutes in a boiling-water bath or pressure
canner. To sterilize jars, boil them in a large saucepan, covered with
water, for 10 minutes. Follow manufacturer's instructions for cleaning
and preparing lids and bands. Use tongs or jar lifters to remove hot
sterilized jars from the boiling water. Be sure the tongs are sterilized
too: Dip the tong ends in boiling water for a few minutes before using
them. All items used in the process of making jams, jellies, preserves
and pickles must be clean, including any towels and especially your
hands. After the jars are prepared, you can preserve the food. It is
important to follow any canning and processing instructions included in
the recipe and refer to USDA guidelines about the sterilization of
canned products. Find Information information on canning can be found at
the National Center for Home Food Preservation website:
http://nchfp.uga.edu/.

*NOTE: When selecting cucumbers for pickling, there are a few things to
remember. For crisp pickles, choose ripe, pickling cucumbers, which are
shorter and chunkier than regular eating cucumbers, which tend to be
longer and smoother. Ripe pickling cucumbers are darker green, firm, and
not "bloated." They should have plenty of spiny bumps on the outer
surface. Overripe cucumbers make mushy pickles. They tend to have yellow
or white streaks or spots and their surfaces are smoother. Choose
pickles that have not been coated in wax, as the pickling brine cannot
penetrate through the wax. The fresher the cucumbers, the crisper the
pickles will be. For best results, try picking your own cucumbers from a
local farm or farmers' market.*
